:orphan:

..  Copyright (C) Paul Resnick.  Permission is granted to copy, distribute
    and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
    License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
    Foundation; with Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and
    Contributor List, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
    the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
    License".

.. highlight:: python
    :linenothreshold: 500


Week 11: ends November 16
=========================

1. Do the multiple choice questions and exercises in the textbook chapters, including the ones at the bottom of the chapters, below the glossary. Don't forget to click Save for each of the exercises, and always access the textbook by clicking on the link from cTools, so that you'll be logged in.
   
   * Before Tuesday's class:
       * View slides ``FB Graph API`` in cTools resources/Slides
       * Install pip, and use pip to install the requests module and facebook-sdk module (instructions in the slides)
       * Do the :ref:`session 21 exercises <session_21_exercises>`. 
       * Read the tutorial on GitHub. You will not need to create or use a github repository for this course, but this will help prepare you for the reading and reading response for Wednesday and some later chapters in the Weber book.
       
         * `Part I <http://readwrite.com/2013/09/30/understanding-github-a-journey-for-beginners-part-1>`_
         * `Part II <http://readwrite.com/2013/10/02/github-for-beginners-part-2>`_

   * Before Thursday's class:
       * Read :ref:`List comprehensions<list_comp_chap>` and do the exercises in the chapter (coming soon)
 
#. Reading responses

   * By Wednesday midnight: 
      * Read *The Success of Open Source*, Chapter 3
      * :ref:`Reading response 10 <reading_response_10>`

#. Problem set

   * This week, there will be a file called ps10.py. You should download a copy of it. You will edit it on your laptop or workstation and test it by running it using your native Python interpreter.
   * If you put ps10.py in a different directory than ps7.py, you will also need to download a copy of test.py into the directory where you put ps10.py.
   
Reading Response
----------------

.. _reading_response_10:

Answer the following questions. 

1. The linux project uses git to organize the work of all the contributors. Take a look at the `linux project on github <https://github.com/torvalds/linux>`_. Take a look at the recent commits. Click around to see how many people have made contributions recently. Also check out the github page for `Runestone <https://github.com/bnmnetp/runestone>`_ and for `my fork of it <https://github.com/presnick/runestone>`_ to make this online textbook. Report on something interesting you found from exploring these public git repositories.

#. Brooks make an argument that communication complexity grows with the square of the number of people participating in a project. Why might that be true? And what are the things you could do in organizing a project to make it not be true?

#. What material from the chapter would you like to discuss in class?

.. activecode:: rr_10_1

   # Fill in your response in between the triple quotes
   s = """

   """
   print s

