:orphan:

..  Copyright (C) Paul Resnick.  Permission is granted to copy, distribute
    and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
    License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
    Foundation; with Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and
    Contributor List, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
    the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
    License".

.. highlight:: python
    :linenothreshold: 500


Week 13: ends November 30 (Dec. 2)
==================================

1. Do the multiple choice questions and exercises in the textbook chapters, including the ones at the bottom of the chapters, below the glossary. Don't forget to click Save for each of the exercises, and always access the textbook by clicking on the link from cTools, so that you'll be logged in.
   
   * Before Tuesday's class:
      * Read the new section on :ref:`Debugging nested data <debug_nested_chap>`   
      * Review the two sections on debugging that deal with
         * :ref:`Strategy for writing a program <build_program_chap>`
         * :ref:`Understanding code <understand_code_chap>`

   * No class Thursday: Thanksgiving!
    
#. Reading responses

   * By **Monday** midnight: 
      * Read *The Success of Open Source*, Chapter 5
      * :ref:`Reading response 12 <reading_response_12>`

#. Problem set

   * This week, there will be a file called ps12.py. You should download a copy of it. You will edit it on your laptop or workstation and test it by running it using your native Python interpreter.
   * If you put ps12.py in a different directory than ps7.py, you will also need to download a copy of test.py into the directory where you put ps12.py.
   
Reading Response
----------------

.. _reading_response_12:

Answer the following questions. 

1. Weber argues that there are several motivations for people to contribute to open source projects. Which of these do you find most plausible? Which least?

#. At an aggregate level, rather than an individual level, Weber argues that because open source projects are "antirival" goods, they can survive having only a small fraction of the participants making positive contributions. First, define "antirival" in your own words. Then say whether you think Weber's argument would work just as well for a "nonrival" good as for an "antirival" good.  

.. activecode:: rr_12_1

   # Fill in your response in between the triple quotes
   s = """

   """
   print s

