..  Copyright (C)  Brad Miller, David Ranum, Jeffrey Elkner, Peter Wentworth, Allen B. Downey, Chris
    Meyers, and Dario Mitchell.  Permission is granted to copy, distribute
    and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
    License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
    Foundation; with Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and
    Contributor List, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
    the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
    License".

The Three Laws of Recursion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Like the robots of Asimov, all recursive algorithms must obey three
important laws:

#. A recursive algorithm must have a **base case**.

#. A recursive algorithm must change its state and move toward the base
   case.

#. A recursive algorithm must call itself, recursively.

Letâ€™s look at each one of these laws in more detail and see how it was
used in the ``listsum`` algorithm. First, a base case is the condition
that allows the algorithm to stop recursing. A base case is typically a
problem that is small enough to solve directly. In the ``listsum``
algorithm the base case is a list of length 1.

To obey the second law, we must arrange for a change of state that moves
the algorithm toward the base case. A change of state means that some
data that the algorithm is using is modified. Usually the data that
represents our problem gets smaller in some way. In the ``listsum``
algorithm our primary data structure is a list, so we must focus our
state-changing efforts on the list. Since the base case is a list of
length 1, a natural progression toward the base case is to shorten the
list. This is exactly what happens on line 5 of :ref:`ActiveCode 2 <lst_recsum>` when we call ``listsum`` with a shorter list.

The final law is that the algorithm must call itself. This is the very
definition of recursion. Recursion is a confusing concept to many
beginning programmers. As a novice programmer, you have learned that
functions are good because you can take a large problem and break it up
into smaller problems. The smaller problems can be solved by writing a
function to solve each problem. When we talk about recursion it may seem
that we are talking ourselves in circles. We have a problem to solve
with a function, but that function solves the problem by calling itself!
But the logic is not circular at all; the logic of recursion is an
elegant expression of solving a problem by breaking it down into a
smaller and easier problems.

In the remainder of this chapter we will look at more examples of
recursion. In each case we will focus on designing a solution to a
problem by using the three laws of recursion.


.. admonition:: Self Check

   .. mchoicemf:: question_recsimp_1
      :correct: c
      :answer_a: 6
      :answer_b: 5
      :answer_c: 4
      :answer_d: 3
      :feedback_a: There are only five numbers on the list, the number of recursive calls will not be greater than the size of the list.
      :feedback_b: The initial call to listsum is not a recursive call.
      :feedback_c: the first recursive call passes the list [4,6,8,10], the second [6,8,10] and so on until [10].
      :feedback_d: This would not be enough calls to cover all the numbers on the list

      How many recursive calls are made when computing the sum of the list [2,4,6,8,10]?

   .. mchoicemf:: question_recsimp_2    
      :correct: d
      :answer_a: n == 0
      :answer_b: n == 1
      :answer_c: n &gt;= 0
      :answer_d: n &lt;= 1
      :feedback_a:  Although this would work there are better and slightly more efficient choices. since fact(1) and fact(0) are the same.
      :feedback_b: A good choice, but what happens if you call fact(0)?
      :feedback_c: This basecase would be true for all numbers greater than zero so fact of any positive number would be 1.
      :feedback_d: Good, this is the most efficient, and even keeps your program from crashing if you try to compute the factorial of a negative number.

      Suppose you are going to write a recusive function to calculate the factorial of a number.  fact(n) returns n * n-1 * n-2 * ... Where the factorial of zero is definded to be 1.  What would be the most appropriate base case?

